The quality control manager of a manufacturing company has randomly selected 50 of the
company’s recent projects. Each project has four attributes: 
1. A PIP number that identifies each project uniquely,
2. A Quality score,
3. A Speed, which is the time duration in days during which the project was completed,
and
4. The cost of the project.
The manager then assigns an overall score (from zero to 7) to each project depending on
how many of the three criteria have been satisfied by that project.
• The Quality criterion is satisfied (event Q) if Quality > 500.
• The Speed criterion is satisfied (Event S) if Speed < 13 days.
• The Cost criterion is satisfied (event C) if cost < $234,000.
1. If none of the three criteria is satisfied, then a score of zero is given to that project.
2. If only the Quality criterion is satisfied but none of the other two are satisfied, then a
score of 1 is given to that project.
3. If only the Speed criterion is satisfied but none of the other two are satisfied, then a
score of 2 is given to that project.
4. If only the Cost criterion is satisfied but none of the other two are satisfied, then a
score of 3 is given to that project.
5. If Quality and Speed are satisfied but the Cost is not satisfied, then score = 4
6. If Quality and Cost are satisfied but the Speed is not satisfied, then score = 5.
7. If Speed and Cost are satisfied but the Quality is not satisfied, then score = 6.
8. If all three criteria are satisfied, then score = 7.
Using the data provided in the attached Excel workbook and the project description,
complete, in R, the tasks 1 -5 as outlined below.
The Venn diagram below describes the sample space (∪) and the three events. The values
inside circles in each of the eight regions of the Venn diagram indicates the score
corresponding to that region.
Part 1
Use R to calculate the missing values in the following table. Note that you will include the
table in your report.
Notation for the Probability of the given event:
Count: Probability/Percentage
P(Q )
P(S )
P(C ) 
Part 2
Use R to calculate the missing values in the following table. Note that you will include the
table in your report.
Part 3
The Venn diagram of this project management procedure consists of 8 regions that have
been numbered 0 through 7 and according to the score gained by the project. Use the Venn
diagram provided in the Excel workbook by first copying the Venn diagram into Microsoft
Paint and then using Paint to populate the eight regions with the counts of the projects that
are located in each region. Copy the resulting Venn diagram into your report.
Part 4
Follow Steps 1 and 2 and place the results in your report. Complete Steps 3 and 4 in R and
place the results in your report.
1. In the word document, write the mathematical notation and the formula for
calculating the probabilities of the events outlined below.
Notation for the Probability of the given
event in terms of events Q, S, and C: 
Count: Probability/Percentage
P(Score = 0)
P(Score = 1)
P(Score = 2)
P(Score = 3)
P(Score = 4)
P(Score = 5)
P(Score = 6)
P(Score = 7)
2. Write the mathematical notation for the event in your report;
3. Using R, calculate the total counts for each event;
4. Using R, calculate the probability (or percentage) for each event.
The events are:
a) Of those who satisfied Cost, what percentage also satisfied Speed?
b) Of those who satisfied Quality, what percentage also satisfied Cost?
c) Of those who satisfied Quality, what percentage also satisfied Speed but did not
satisfy the Cost?
d) Of those who satisfied Cost, what percentage also satisfied Speed but did not satisfy
the Quality?
e) Of those who did not satisfy Speed, what percentage satisfied Quality and Cost?
f) What percentage satisfied exactly two of the three criteria?
g) Of those who satisfied at least one of the three criteria, what percentage satisfied
exactly one criterion?
h) Of those who did not satisfy Cost, what percentage satisfied the Speed criterion?
Part 5
In the word document, write a minimum of 800 words to describe your analyses and
findings. Explain how the results that you have obtained in your analyses can be used to
improve performance for all future projects. 
